Java & Spring Boot Interview Preparation Questions
-----------------------------------------------------------------
What are compile-time and run-time exceptions? Will both types of exceptions be thrown? If yes, when? If no, why do we still need both?
How to define global exception handling in Spring Boot?
What is @ControllerAdvice and how does it work?
What are REST API Design Principles?
Can you provide examples of well-designed REST API URLs/URIs?
How does an API call reach the controller in Spring Boot?
What is the difference between authentication and authorization? How do they work?
How does JWT-based authentication and authorization work?
How do you create and manage sessions in Spring Boot?
What are the different encoding mechanisms available in Spring Boot to secure API calls?
How can you secure API responses in a Spring Boot application?
What is a Servlet?How does it handle API calls internally?
What are the different types of beans in Spring? When should each type be used?
What are the different ways to create a bean in Spring?
What are alternatives to using @Autowired ?
When should you use constructor injection, setter injection, and field injection?
What is serialization and deserialization? Why are they important?
How does a @RestController handle API requests and responses?
How does the controller handle exceptions?
How do you implement multithreading in a Spring Boot project?
What are the ways to make a Java application thread-safe?
synchronized vs ReentrantLock — what’s the difference and when should each be used?
What is the volatile keyword and why is it used?
How does a Map work in Java?
What is a synchronized and Concurrent HashMap? What is the difference between them, and when should we use each 
How do you remove duplicates from a HashMap ? Discuss concepts like ConcurrentModificationException , fail-fast vs fail-safe iterators, and modCount.
What are the key features of Java 8?
What is a functional interface? Where is it used? What are the types (system-defined and userdefined)?
What is the Optional class? What are its types and how is it used (with examples)?
What is encapsulation? How is it different from abstraction? How do you achieve encapsulation?
Can we use try without catch in Java?
When and why should you use interfaces or abstract classes?
What is the difference between them?
Give examples of default and static methods in interfaces (both system-defined and user-defined).
What is AOP (Aspect-Oriented Programming)? Create an AOP, Why and when should you use AOP?
What are Microservices? How do you handle failures in a microservices environment?
What are the different ways microservices communicate with each other?
How do you secure communication between microservices?
How do you debug issues in a microservices environment?
How are static and dynamic IPs mapped in S3 using Route 53 (dynamic DNS routing)?
Which design patterns have you used in real projects?
How do you use JUnit and Mockito for unit testing?
What are the core components of a microservices architecture?
How does one microservice interact with another?
What is an API Gateway? What are its uses?
What is a Circuit Breaker and why is it used?
What is the best way to store credentials needed by multiple services?
How do you log API responses along with HTTP status codes after every API call?
Find the Maximum Salary in each department using group by in Java.
Find the maximum salary and the department name in Java. 
Find the second maximum salary in SQL/Java. 
Frequency Count of Characters using Streams
Could you calculate the frequency of each word in the given string using Streams?
Find the largest and second-largest numbers in the array using Streams.
Return a Map with ID as key and salary as value from the list of employees using Streams.
Find the Duplicate value in a given array using Streams.

